# PLAYSTORE-DATA-ANALYSIS

## About the project:

In this project, I worked on a real-world dataset of the google play store, one of the most used applications for downloading android apps. This project aims on cleaning the dataset, Data analysis, and mining quality information for better insights. This project also involves visualizing the data to better and easily understand trends and different categories.

## Project description

This project helped me understand how a real-world database is analyzed using SQL, how to get maximum available insights from the dataset, pre-process the data using Excel for a better upcoming performance, how a structured query language helps us retrieve useful information from the database, and visualize the data with the bi tool.

The Project will consist of:
Pre-processing using Excel,
Analyzing data using  SQL.
Visualizing data using  Tableau tool.

## Pre- processing using Excel

Data cleaning is important in every data analysis to ensure that the data is converted from it  raw state to a useable state, so i made use of Excel tools and function to clean, organize and manipulate the data.This task includes sub-tasks such as handling null values, deletion or transformation of irrelevant values, data type transformation, removing duplicates, encoding the data into suitable format etc. 
  
Here is the link to the cleaning process article
https://medium.com/@ogbozorracheal/data-cleaning-in-excel-d521e0950de6

## Analysing data using SQL

Here are some question that the data set will help us answer;

1; Which apps have the highest rating in the given available dataset?

2; What are the number of installs and reviews for the above apps? Return the apps with the highest reviews to the top.

3; Which app has the highest number of reviews? Also, mention the number of reviews and category of the app

4; What is the total amount of revenue generated by the google play store by hosting apps? (Whenever a user buys apps  from the google play store, the amount is considered in the revenue)

5; Which Category of google play store apps has the highest number of installs? also, find out the total number of installs for that particular category.

6; Which Genre has the most number of published apps?

7; Provide the list of all games ordered in such a way that the game that has the highest number of installs is displayed on the top
(to avoid duplicate results use distinct)

8; Provide the list of apps that can work on android version 4.0.3 and UP.

9; How many apps from the given data set are free? Also, provide the number of paid apps.

10; Which is the best dating app? (Best dating app is the one having the highest number of Reviews)
Get the number of reviews having positive sentiment and number of reviews having negative sentiment for the app 10 best foods for you and compare them.

12; Which comments of ASUS SuperNote have sentiment polarity and sentiment subjectivity both as 1?

13; Get all the neutral sentiment reviews for the app Abs Training-Burn belly fat 

14; Extract all negative sentiment reviews for Adobe Acrobat Reader with their sentiment polarity and sentiment subjectivity

Here is the link to the EDA article
https://medium.com/@ogbozorracheal/6a5b04c9d09d

And here is the link to the tableau visuals
https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/racheal.ogbozor1965/viz/Playstoredashboardfortheyear2010-2018datasets/Dashboard1

# Conlusion and Recommendations 

1  Playstore app generated over $367 million as revenue for the period of 2010 - 2018 with 146, 631 million total number of installs

2  Free apps are the most installed apps therefore, there could be more of the free apps on the Google play store platform compared to the paid apps. Also, the paid     apps could be subsidized to be more affordable to the users.

3 All apps on the goolge playstore could be made accessible by individuals regardless of the version of android phones their use since the android version with the most number of installs is that of " Varies with device".

4 22% of the total Number of apps with negative sentiment, though the percentage is minimal but Google playstore could improve on the apps with such negative sentiment by 
- checking if the apps have poor user experience. simplyfing the interface and even incorporating user testing process before making the apps available for download could be helpful.
- cost and price of the apps. The negative sentiment could be due to the price of installing the app
- the negative sentiment could be personal preferences.
- inadequate customer supoort. these could make the user feel frustrated and leave a negative sentiment or review.
